Online MIDI editor - PHP classes
  http://dasdeck.de/staff/valentin/midi/

The database cleaning functions should be rewritten when I upgrade MySQL to
a version that allows subqueries. (4.1.x)
  delete from FileCategory where FileID not in (select ID from File)

Edit / delete gallery entries and handle proposed ones better

When people are wrong and they upload a .bmp file as a .jpg or something,
make sure that the proper file type is listed in the database.

Use the GIF functions if the version of GD that is being used with PHP
allows it.

If an image is a .jpg, load it and resave it to make sure EXIM data is
stripped and the image is no longer progressive.

Use ImageCreateFromString instead of using a temporary file if possible.

Detect image type and make sure phone supports it.

Make a simple gallery that doesn't need the database.  Simple is good.

Allow people to upload .jad files and reparse them.  If they don't upload a
.jad file, fall back on generating one from the Manifest.

Find an unzip library for PHP so I don't need to use the command-line
version anymore.  Well, I will likely need to write one.

Rewrite to not need the path_info so it will work on IIS.

Rewrite everything to make it work better.  Untangle code and simplify
people's lives.

Sort the gallery (DB) from newest to oldest.

Change the gallery (DB) from "next page" to a list of page numbers:  1, 2,
3, 4

Allow the "callback number" to be filled in on the Sprint SMS web form.

For some installations of PHP, the admin decides that you can not fopen()
uploaded files directly.  You need to move them into a writeable directory
first.  See the forum post where I have a workaround.  Write better code for
inclusion into the uploader.
http://forum.rumkin.com/index.php?action=vthread&forum=2&topic=312

Have the ability for the link that is sent to phones via SMS to be actual
links -- <a href="xxx">download</a> -- Sanyo MM-8300 is one that only works
with the HTML links.

Show what types of files your phone accepts (link to this info on the jump
page).

Allow people to set the "Default" provider via config.php.  Right now, it is
hardcoded in common.inc, "@messaging.sprintpcs.com"

Non-sequential jump codes

Setup script that detects
 * GD installed
 * GD version 2.0 or better
 * Which type of requests to use
 * Setup of database
 
"Recent uploads" gallery

If people are seeing the wallpaper or hearing the ringer when they test the
uploader on their own site, they need to get whitelisted at openwave for it
to work.  Register at developer.sprint.com and ask to whitelist your site.
--- I was whitelisted thanks to Joel D Boutin Joel.Boutin@sprint.com
--- add that to the FAQ
--- more info @ http://wapreview.com/blog/?p=514